Okta Aerial guide (#4384)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/manage-orgs-okta-aerial/main/index.md

</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Aerial org</strong></dt>
<dd>Holds the authorization server for all Aerial API actions in any org in the Aerial account. Choose one org to permanently serve as the Aerial Org. <br/>Super admins can create API clients in the Aerial Org to access the Aerial account. The Aerial Org also contains all System Log events associated with Okta Aerial actions.</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Products</strong></dt>
<dd>Okta-determined sets of features. With the Okta Aerial API, you can view subscribed products for an Aerial account and enable a subset of products to orgs.</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Features</strong></dt>
<dd>Distinct pieces of functionality. Features are bundled within products but may also be offered separately, for example, Early Access features.</dd>
</dl>

### Aerial sandbox and production environments

Okta provides the following environments to use with your Aerial account:

- **Sandbox**: Only connected to OP3 cells. Use for scale testing and repetitive testing.

  `https://aerial-sandbox.okta.com`

> - **Production**:  Connected to `okta.com` and `okta.preview.com`. Use to explore the Aerial API or test net-new development. Link a preview org to your production instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Production**: Connected to `okta.com` and `okta.preview.com`. Use to explore the Aerial API or test net-new development. Link a preview org to your production instance.
```

Add the access token to the Authorization header of Okta Aerial API requests:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}
```
<!-- our OAuth docs for service apps rely on Postman for this step. need something in the interim until Postman is ready -->

## Create a child org

Create a child org of the parent org using the Org creator API. This creates a child org with features synced from the parent org. In the API response, you receive an API token tied to the super admin. Use the token to provision more resources on the child org like policies, apps, or groups.

This isn't the token that's used for Okta Aerial. See the [Org creator API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/OrgCreation/). The API token that the Org creator API creates has the same automatic expiration and deactivation as API tokens created using the [Admin Console](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#token-expiration-and-deactivation).

However, the Org creator API token doesn’t appear in the Admin Console. You can’t use the Admin Console to revoke the token. If you deactivate the super admin (the first admin created during org creation), the token is deactivated.

> If you lose this token or it auto-expires, you must sign in to the Admin Console as a super admin and [create a token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#create-the-token).

Reviewer: Do you need to say "auto"-expires? If I'm missing a nuance, please ignore.

```suggestion
If you lose this token or it expires, you must sign in to the Admin Console as a super admin and [create a token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#create-the-token).
```

> ## Link the Org to the Aerial account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Link the org to the Aerial account
```

To enable products in an org, add the org to your Aerial account. You can only add orgs to your Aerial account that are associated with your Okta contracts.

> To link the org to Okta Aerial, send a `POST` request to the `/api/va/orgs` endpoint of the Aerial API. The response contains the Org object including the `orgId`. Use the `orgId` to enable products.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Link the org to Okta Aerial by sending a `POST` request to the `/api/va/orgs` endpoint of the Aerial API. The response contains the Org object including the `orgId`. Use the `orgId` to enable products.
```

### Use `orgId`

<ApiOperation method="post" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs" />

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}

{
  "orgId": "00oy0itaI2Yi7XGGE0g3",
  "cell": "OK1"
}
```

### Use `domain`

<ApiOperation method="post" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs" />

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}

{
  "domain": "${yourOktaDomain}",
  "cell": "OK1"
}
```

### Response example

<!-- We have this note in the Google doc. What to do?

Note: This API is still in development. We update the documentation with more accurate examples as we progress in development. -->

> The ID of this record is the `orgId`. Use it in the URL for enabling Products:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ID of this record is the `orgId`. Use it in the URL for enabling products:
```

```json
{
  "accountId": "string",
  "name": "string",
  "region": "string",
  "cell": "string",
  "domain": "string",
  "status": "string",
  "createdDate": "string",
  "createdBy": "string",
  "id": "string"
}
```

## Enable products in the org

<ApiOperation method="put" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/products" />

> Include the products you want to enable in an array in the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include the products that you want to enable in an array in the request body.
```

> Any already-enabled products not found in the array of product IDs are disabled from the org.. See [List all enabled Products for an Org](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/aerial/aerial/tag/Orgs/#tag/Orgs/operation/getEnabledProducts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any already-enabled products not found in the array of product IDs are disabled from the org. See [List all enabled Products for an Org](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/aerial/aerial/tag/Orgs/#tag/Orgs/operation/getEnabledProducts).
```

> **Note:** Since Okta ignores the `name` property, you can include it to simplify the client implementation.

<div class="three-quarter">

![Enable a product in an org](/img/aerial-enable-product.png)

</div>

> ### Request and response example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request and response examples
```

The request and response are the same:

```json
[
  {
    "id": "P000052",
    "name": "IT Products - SSO"
  },
  {
    "id": "P000139",
    "name": "IT Products - MFA"
  },
  {
    "id": "P000131",
    "name": "IT Products - Lifecycle Management with 1 OIN App"
  }
]
```

> ## Configure the Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the org
```

> To pre-configure groups, apps, and policies in each org, the Aerial API client needs the following:

Author: @rajatsharma-okta Also, I could link to all the APIs, but I don't know how helpful that is. Our example request uses the Apps API, so I've linked to it.

  `https://aerial-sandbox.okta.com`

- **Production**:  Connected to `okta.com` and `okta.preview.com`. Use to explore the Aerial API, or test net-new development. Link a preview org to your production instance.

  `https://aerial-apac.okta.com`

See [Link the new org to the Aerial account](#link-the-org-to-the-aerial-account).

### Summary of steps

Follow these steps to create and configure new orgs in your Aerial account:

1. [Authenticate with Okta Aerial](#authenticate-with-okta-aerial): Configure an API client in the Aerial org to call the Okta Aerial API.
1. [Create and configure a child org](#create-a-child-org): Create a child org based on the parent org using the Org creator API.
1. [Link the org to the Aerial account](#link-the-org-to-the-aerial-account): Link the org to the Aerial account using the Aerial API.
1. [Enable products in the org](#enable-products-in-the-org): Enable products in the Org using the Aerial API.
1. [Configure the org](#configure-the-org): Configure the org using Okta objects in the Aerial API.

You can also manage an org's status, and enable or disable products in an org:

- [Manage an org's status](#manage-an-orgs-status)

> - [List the configured products in the Org](#list-the-configured-products)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List the configured products in the org](#list-the-configured-products)
```

> - [Enable a product in an Org](#enable-a-product-in-an-org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enable a product in an org](#enable-a-product-in-an-org)
```

> - [Remove a product from an Org](#remove-a-product-from-an-org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Remove a product from an org](#remove-a-product-from-an-org)
```

<div class="full">

![Okta Aerial - summary of steps](/img/aerial-full-flow.png)

</div>

## Register an Okta Aerial API client

Use an Aerial API client to add orgs to the Aerial account and to modify products.

Only a super admin in your Aerial org can grant scopes to the client. Configure scopes once per API client.

In your Aerial org, create an API client:

1. In the **Admin Console**, go to **Applications** > **Applications**, and then click **Create App Integration**.
1. Select **API Services** as the sign-in method, and click **Next**.
1. Enter a name for your client and click **Save**.

Configure the signing keys for the client:

1. In the **Client Credentials** section of the **General** tab, click **Edit** to change the client authentication method.
1. Select **Public key/Private key** as the client authentication method.
1. Choose either **Save keys in Okta** or **Use a URL to fetch keys dynamically**:
   - If you want to save keys in Okta, click **Add key**.

>    - If you want to use a URL to fetch keys dynamically, you need to provide a URL that returns the [JWKS documents](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7517#section-5).

Reviewer: You might want to link to my document Client secret rotation and key management - it covers the steps for saving the keys in Okta as well as using a URL to fetch keys dynamically:

https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/client-secret-rotation-key/main/

Grant scopes to the client:

1. Select the **Okta API Scopes** tab.
1. To access Okta Aerial, click **Grant** on the following scopes:
  - `okta.accounts.manage`: read/write operations
  - `okta.accounts.read`: read-only operations

## Authenticate with Okta Aerial

> To authenticate with Okta Aerial, a client obtains an access token from the Aerial org. See [Implement OAuth for Okta with a service app](/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/#get-an-access-token) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To authenticate with Okta Aerial, a client obtains an access token from the Aerial org. See [Implement OAuth for Okta with a service app](/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/#get-an-access-token).
```

> Create a [JWT assertion](/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/#create-and-sign-the-jwt) and use it to make a [token request](/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/main/#create-and-sign-the-jwt) to the Aerial org. The Aerial org returns the access token:

Reviewer: The last sentence is confusing since you then present the request, not the response. I would move this last sentence below the token request example and above the "Add the access token to the Authorization header of Okta Aerial API requests" sentence.

```bash
curl --location --request POST 'https://${aerialOrgDomain}/oauth2/v1/token' \
    -H 'Accept: application/json' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
    --data-urlencode 'grant_type=client_credentials' \
    --data-urlencode 'scope=okta.accounts.manage' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer' \
    --data-urlencode 'client_assertion=${jwt_assertion}'
```

Add the access token to the Authorization header of Okta Aerial API requests:

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}
```
<!-- our OAuth docs for service apps rely on Postman for this step. need something in the interim until Postman is ready -->

> ## Create a child Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a child org
```

> Create a child org using the Org creator API credentials in the parent org. This creates a child org with features synced from the parent org. In the API response, you receive an API token tied to the super admin. Use the token to provision more resources on the child org, like policies, apps, or groups.

Reviewer: This first sentence was confusing to me. Please LMK if I changed the meaning with my edit.

```suggestion
Create a child org of the parent org using the Org creator API. This creates a child org with features synced from the parent org. In the API response, you receive an API token tied to the super admin. Use the token to provision more resources on the child org like policies, apps, or groups.
```

> This isn't the token that is used for Okta Aerial. See the [Org creator API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/OrgCreation/). The API token that the Org creator API creates has the same automatic expiration and deactivation as API tokens created using the [Admin Console](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#token-expiration-and-deactivation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This isn't the token that's used for Okta Aerial. See the [Org creator API](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/management/tag/OrgCreation/). The API token that the Org creator API creates has the same automatic expiration and deactivation as API tokens created using the [Admin Console](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#token-expiration-and-deactivation).
```

> However, the Org creator API token doesn’t appear in the Admin Console. You can’t use the console to revoke the token. If you deactivate the super admin (the first admin created during org creation), the token is deactivated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the Org creator API token doesn’t appear in the Admin Console. You can’t use the Admin Console to revoke the token. If you deactivate the super admin (the first admin created during org creation), the token is deactivated.
```

> If you lose this token or it auto-expires, you must log in to the Admin Console as a Super Admin and [create a token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#create-the-token).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you lose this token or it auto-expires, you must sign in to the Admin Console as a super admin and [create a token](/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/main/#create-the-token).
```

## Link the Org to the Aerial account

To enable products in an org, add the org to your Aerial account. You can only add orgs to your Aerial account that are associated with your Okta contracts.

To link the org to Okta Aerial, send a `POST` request to the `/api/va/orgs` endpoint of the Aerial API. The response contains the Org object including the `orgId`. Use the `orgId` to enable products.

### Use `orgId`

<ApiOperation method="post" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs" />

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}

{
  "orgId": "00oy0itaI2Yi7XGGE0g3",
  "cell": "OK1"
}
```

### Use `domain`

<ApiOperation method="post" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs" />

```bash
Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}

{
  "domain": "${yourOktaDomain}",
  "cell": "OK1"
}
```

### Response example

<!-- We have this note in the Google doc. What to do?

> Note: this API is still in development. We will update the documentation with more accurate examples as we progress in development. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: This API is still in development. We update the documentation with more accurate examples as we progress in development. -->
```

> The id of this record is the `orgId` to use in the URL for enabling Products:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ID of this record is the `orgId`. Use it in the URL for enabling Products:
```

```json
{
  "accountId": "string",
  "name": "string",
  "region": "string",
  "cell": "string",
  "domain": "string",
  "status": "string",
  "createdDate": "string",
  "createdBy": "string",
  "id": "string"
}
```

> ## Enable products in the Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable products in the org
```

<!-- should add a bit of concept content here -->

<ApiOperation method="put" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/products" />

### Request and response example

> 

Reviewer: What is this a request and response example of? It looks like the same as the response example just above and doesn't look like a request example...

Author: I've fixed this. The request example should be an array of products. If a product is in the array, it's enabled on the org. If it's not included in the array, it's disabled from the org.

To make sure it's clear, I've separated them into a request and a response example, even though they're basically the same details.

```json
{
  "accountId": "string",
  "name": "string",
  "region": "string",
  "cell": "string",
  "domain": "string",
  "status": "string",
  "createdDate": "string",
  "createdBy": "string",
  "id": "string"
}
```

## Configure the Org

To pre-configure groups, apps, and policies in each org, the Aerial API client needs the following:

- The domain of the org
- The API token returned by the Org creator API

#### Request example

```bash
curl --location --request POST 'https://${newOrgDomain}/api/v1/apps \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
  "name": "bookmark",
  "label": "Sample Bookmark App",
  "signOnMode": "BOOKMARK",
  "settings": {
    "app": {
      "requestIntegration": false,
      "url": "https://example.com/bookmark.htm"
    }
  }
}'
```

> ## Manage an Org's status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage an org's status
```

<ApiOperation method="put" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/status" />

> Deactivate an org by calling the `/status` endpoint. Deactivated orgs don’t count toward billing. Users in the org can’t use Okta’s services or sign-in to Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deactivate an org by calling the `/status` endpoint. Deactivated orgs don’t count toward billing. Users in the org can’t use Okta services or sign in to Okta.
```

<div class="three-quarter">

> ![Deactivate an Org](/img/aerial-change-status.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Deactivate an org](/img/aerial-change-status.png)
```

</div>

### Request example

```bash
{
   "status": "INACTIVE"
}
```

### Response example

```bash
{
  "id": "00o133mJ27DoonJz50g4",
  "status": "INACTIVE",
  ...
}
```

> ## List the configured Products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## List the configured products
```

<ApiOperation method="get" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/products" />

### Response example

```bash
[
  {
    "id": "P000052",
    "name": "IT Products - SSO"
  },
  {
    "id": "P000131",
    "name": "IT Products - MFA"
  }
]
```

> ## Enable a Product in an Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable a product in an org
```

<ApiOperation method="put" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/products" />

Enables a product with ID P000139 in the org (IT Products - Lifecycle Management with 1 OIN App)

> > **Note:** The `name` property is ignored, and can be included to simplify the client implementation.

Reviewer: Please LMK if I changed the meaning of this with my edit
```suggestion
> **Note:** Since Okta ignores the `name` property, you can include it to simplify the client implementation.
```

<div class="three-quarter">

> ![Enable a Product in an Org](/img/aerial-enable-product.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Enable a product in an org](/img/aerial-enable-product.png)
```

</div>

> ### Request and response example

Reviewer: which is this?  request or response example? It's not clear

```json
[
  {
    "id": "P000052",
    "name": "IT Products - SSO"
  },
  {
    "id": "P000139",
    "name": "IT Products - MFA"
  },
  {
    "id": "P000131",
    "name": "IT Products - Lifecycle Management with 1 OIN App"
  }
]
```

> ## Remove a Product from an Org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Remove a product from an org
```

<ApiOperation method="put" url="https://aerial-{region}/{accountId}/api/v1/orgs/{orgId}/products" />

Removes a product with ID P000139 from the org (IT Products - Lifecycle Management with 1 OIN App)

Any products not found in the array of product IDs are disabled from the org.

> > **Note:** The `name` property is ignored, and can be included to simplify the client implementation.

Author: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Since Okta ignores the `name` property, you can include it to simplify the client implementation.
```

> > **Note:** The `name` property is ignored, and can be included to simplify the client implementation.

Reviewer: use my suggestion from above

<div class="three-quarter">

> ![Disable a Product in an Org](/img/aerial-remove-product.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Disable a product in an org](/img/aerial-remove-product.png)
```

</div>

### Request and response example

> 

Reviewer: this is both the request and the response example?

</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Aerial org</strong></dt>
<dd>Holds the authorization server for all Aerial API actions in any org in the Aerial account. Choose one org to permanently serve as the Aerial Org. <br/>Super admins can create API clients in the Aerial Org to access the Aerial account. The Aerial Org also contains all System Log events associated with Okta Aerial actions.</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Products</strong></dt>
<dd>Okta-determined sets of features. Example products include: `P000052`: IT Products - SSO, `P000131`: IT Products - MFA, `P000139`: IT Products - Lifecycle Management with 1 OIN App. With the Okta Aerial API, you can view subscribed products for an Aerial account and enable a subset of products to orgs.</dd>
</br>
<dt><strong>Features</strong></dt>
<dd>Distinct pieces of functionality. Features are bundled within products but may also be offered separately, for example, Early Access features.</dd>
</dl>

### Aerial sandbox and production environments

Okta provides the following environments to use with your Aerial account:

- Sandbox: Only connected to OP3 cells. Use for scale testing and repetitive testing.

>   `https://aerial-sandbox/{accountId}`

Reviewer 2: `https://aerial-sandbox.okta.com/{accountId}`

We can also probably drop `/{accountId}`.

- Production: Connected to OP1, OP2, and OP3. Use to explore the Aerial API, or test net-new development. Link a preview org to your production instance.

>   `https://aerial-apac/{accountId}`

Reviewer 2: `https://aerial-apac.okta.com`

See [Link the new org to the Aerial account](#link-the-org-to-the-aerial-account).

### Summary of steps

Follow these steps to create and configure new orgs in your Aerial account:

1. [Authenticate with Okta Aerial](#authenticate-with-okta-aerial): Configure an API client in the Aerial org to call the Okta Aerial API.
1. [Create and configure a child org](#create-a-child-org): Create a child org based on the parent org using the Org creator API.
1. [Link the org to the Aerial account](#link-the-org-to-the-aerial-account): Link the org to the Aerial account using the Aerial API.
1. [Enable products in the org](#enable-products-in-the-org): Enable products in the Org using the Aerial API.
1. [Configure the org](#configure-the-org): Configure the org using Okta objects in the Aerial API.

You can also manage an org's status, and enable or disable products in an org:

- [Manage an org's status](#manage-an-orgs-status)
- [List the configured products in the Org](#list-the-configured-products)
- [Enable a product in an Org](#enable-a-product-in-an-org)
- [Remove a product from an Org](#remove-a-product-from-an-org)

<div class="half">

> ![Okta Aerial - summary of steps](/img/aerial-full-flow.png)

Reviewer 2: Image rendered too small. Hard to view.
